The Miburo rise early.
Our mornings start at the sixth hour,
with the rising of the sun.
It's already my fourth day here.
290!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Kondo Isami
291!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Hijikata Toshizo
292!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Okita Soji
293!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Nagakura Shinpachi
294!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Harada Sanosuke
295!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Todo Heisuke
296!
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
Inoue Genzaburo
297!
Saito Hajime
m 0 0 l 100 0 100 100 0 100
These guys... can't be human.
298! 299!
300!
Are you all right, boy?
Better take a breather.
No, I'm fine.
I can keep going.
Smile all you want,
but you're white as a sheet.
I'm just having trouble raising my arms.
What a wimp.
Nice.
You're getting better.
Shove it!
W-Wow.
They just did all those practice swings,
and they're already sparring.
I know I can't match them,
but I have to at least try.
Who can I pair with?
H-Hajime-kun, would you
mind sparring with me?
Hold on, Nio. Hajime is—
Old man.
Bamboo swords. Protectors.
Huh?
Whoa! I look so cool!
Okay. Best of three wins.
Begin!
I can't see an opening.
But I won't get anywhere if I don't try.
Huh?
Blue Miburo
I...
Ow!
He landed a clean hit to your head.
Hijikata-san.
Oh, I see. He beat me.
Saito Hajime is the second wolf
who joined us in Kyoto.
Kondo-san picked him up somewhere.
You can't beat him.
You don't need to try to catch up to him.
Nio, I didn't choose you
for your skill with a sword.
I know. But that's why
I need to work up a sweat.
Huh?
I've got to sweat up a storm!
Well, I don't really get it,
but you want to keep training, right?
If you want to learn swordsmanship here,
speak to him.
Start here.
End here.
Whoa. Th-That was so fast.
It even sounded different.
In my youth, I did this a
thousand times every day.
P-Please watch me try, sir.
Very well.
One! Two! Three! Four!
He's earnest. Motivated, too.
10! 11! 12! 13!
But...
He has no talent.
14! 15! 16!
Not like that.
Listen, the trick is...
17!
18! 19!
20! 21!
22! 23!
24! 25! 26!
I'm hopeless.
So, as a newcomer,
I'll let my actions speak for me.
27! 28!
If I want to stay, I'll have to show it.
29!
30! 31!
If I can't measure up,
I'll at least work up a sweat.
32! 33!
I'll keep plugging away
at the things anyone can do.
34! 35!
36! 37!
Hold up. Is he still going at it?
He's hopeless. A real slow learner.
Well, he is a kid.
And he hasn't got the knack.
Can you blame him? He only just started.
Out with it.
What's the matter, Nagakura-san?
Where's the harm?
895!
896! 897! 898!
That's the spirit! Keep it up! Almost there!
899! 900! 901!
We are all swordsmen
who fell behind the times.
902! 903!
Who belongs in the Miburo
more than a bungler?
True.
Well said.
Right?
I won't accept him.
Yeah!
Hang in there, Nio!
One more swing!
Damn it!
Nio, did I misjudge you?
Are you a fast learner?
Or did you always have it
in you, lying dormant?
He's still in the ring!
This talent for sumo!
It's a tie!
Again?
In sumo, they're equals!
The hell are you looking at?
You're left-handed, huh, Hajime-kun?
Don't talk to me!
Oh, a fight? Have at it!
Don't get a big head
just 'cause we tied at sumo!
What good friends.
Let go!
Rejoice. I bring good news.
Our petition has been heard.
I'm off to meet with officials from Aizu.
Our money troubles are over,
and the rest will sort itself out.
What? That's amazing. You mean
they're actually going to pay us?
Yes. They even provided formalwear.
Sir Kondo, Sir Hijikata, join us.
Something's fishy.
He's actually going?
Count me out. I'm not interested.
Do what you like.
Nio. Hajime. We're going on patrol.
Yes, sir. Right behind you.
Oh, sorry. I forgot my wooden sword.
I'll go grab it.
Hijikata, why'd you
recruit a guy like him?
Miburo are supposed to be tough.
We don't need wimps.
He's a match for you in sumo.
Sumo's got nothing to do with this!
Found it!
Hajime, spend some time with him
and you'll understand.
I sure hope so.
Huh?
Um...
Are you sure you shouldn't
have gone, Hijikata-san?
It was your big chance
to meet officials from Aizu.
I'm sure. We came here to
keep Kyoto safe, and that's all.
Who we serve doesn't change that.
But this all costs money, doesn't it?
And hosting us must
put a strain on the Yagi family.
Nio.
Yes, sir?
We guard this city with our lives.
Yes, sir.
I'd say we've earned three
square meals and a place to sleep.
He's so cool!
Hajime-kun's swords look awfully old.
Are they antiques?
Don't stand on my left.
Huh?
Every samurai knows that.
Oh, right. I-I understand.
I have some business to take care of.
Wait here for a bit.
Yes, sir.
355, 356, 357.
Your median line is off-center.
M-My what line? Uh, what do you mean?
I, um, heard Kondo-san
recruited you in Kyoto.
How do you know him?
No answer? I see how it is.
Listen, you're technically
my ally, so I'll warn you.
I practice iai.
Iai!
Wh-What's "iai"?
I don't know anything about swordsmanship.
Stand back.
That's iai.
Once I get in range, I kill.
W-Wow.
Don't get the wrong idea.
I'm saying, stay out of my range
if you want to live.
That was awesome!
Huh?
Maybe I'll try it once I finish
my thousand practice swings.
Like this!
Or maybe this?
Quit it. You'll hurt someone.
What is it?
Another attack?
Nowhere's safe lately.
Let's go see.
H-Hey!
Excuse me. Coming through.
It hurts! It hurts!
Who's this guy?
That's enough.
Stop!
What're you doing?
Stop! Stop it!
A child hostage? How could he?!
It hurts!
It's war, war, war.
Stop it!
We'd better not risk provoking him.
Let that girl go!
This guy!
Huh?
You kids stay back. It's not safe.
Funazo! Calm down!
"Funazo"? He knows him?
Violence won't bring Ofune-san back to life!
That's right.
Do you think she'd be happy
seeing you like this—
Stop! Stop it, Dad! I'm scared!
Ah, Misaki.
He's her father?
Misaki!
I'll avenge your mom! Avenge her!
Avenge her? Ofune-san died of an illness.
Excuse me?
It's the times that did this to us!
You all know what I mean!
Ten years ago, the Black Ships came
and the Shogun opened the port.
But the unequal treaty he signed
just bleeds our money away overseas!
And who pays the cost?
We do!
Rice prices rise,
and we can't afford medicine!
Who's to blame?
The bungling shogunate?
The impotent emperor? Foreign invaders?
Hey, you there. Brat!
Do you know how things got this way?
Do you know our enemy's name?!
Our enemy's... name?
Answer me!
Shut up.
It doesn't matter who's to blame.
Stop whining already.
You're only making yourself more pathetic.
Shut up! What would you know?!
It hurts!
I've got to cut them down.
Funazo—
Get away!
We need to go after him!
That girl's in danger!
Don't follow me!
Damn it!
Down there! An opening!
He can't have gone far. Get looking.
Hajime-kun, I need a favor!
Huh? Save it for later!
Could you please settle this
without killing him?
What? Are you crazy?
That guy's better off dead!
A wimp who blames anyone but himself
will never learn his lesson!
But he hasn't hurt or killed anyone yet.
He can turn himself around.
Once he kills, it'll be too late.
I know that...
but he's still that girl's father.
I don't know what having a father is like,
but I'm sure it's better than not having one.
Fine. I'll do what I can.
Happy now?
Yes. Thank you.
I'll finish this in one strike.
You save the kid.
Okay. Leave it to me.
It hurts! It hurts!
There.
What's the plan?
First stop, the palace.
I'll go to the palace and...
We run straight at him.
Got it.
He's spotted us.
Go!
Y-You!
Hey, this looks bad.
Hajime-kun, can you do your iai while running?
Huh? No way in hell!
Okay. Thanks.
I just told you I can't do it!
S-S-Stay back!
Where's the kid?
She's fine!
Awe—
All right. Well, that wasn't terrible.
Sh-She must be all right
if she can cry this much.
I'll say.
Damn it all!
I can at least end it all.
That'll show them how I've suffered.
That broken sword won't do the job.
I don't want to hear it!
Wh-Why stop me?
Don't do it.
But why stop me?
I... I don't know my enemy's name.
I don't know what I should
be fighting against, but...
Dad...
Don't. Don't do it.
I know you have a daughter.
Funazo!
And I know you have people
who care about you.
I'm sorry.
I don't have the right answer,
but Funazo-san,
I know dying is the wrong one.
I'm sure of that, if nothing else.
That's what I think.
Damn it.
Softies.
They should've tossed him in a jail cell.
Maybe.
But it's better to fix things
the soft way if you can.
Oh! W-We might be in trouble!
Why? What's wrong?
Hijikata-san told us to
stay put and wait for him.
I hear you shrimps outdid yourselves.
Thank you, sir.
I'm not a shrimp!
Cheeky brat.
Jackass!
P-Please stop.
That's the spirit!
This will help the boys grow.
All according to plan.
Seriously?
Oh no! I've only done 700 today!
Wrong.
Hajime-kun?
Your median line's off-center.
You said that earlier. What does it mean?
There's a line through
the center of your body.
It runs straight from your head to your toes.
Always keep your left hand in line
with it when you swing down.
You'll get a little less awful
if you can manage that.
Thank you, Hajime-kun!
Ugh! Look at these leftover onigiri!
I-I couldn't tell he was there.
Taro-kun?
Won't someone eat them for me?
The
Name
of the
Enemy
Next time
Vicious killers stalk the streets as the
storm of "sonno joi" rages through Kyoto.
Hoping to pit outlaw against outlaw,
Aizu domain makes the Mibu Roshigumi an offer.
The time has come for the Miburo
to go forth, prepared to do or die.
Next time: "United in Purpose."
United
in
Purpose
It will not disappoint.